---
title: November Directors' Meeting Minutes
layout: news_item
blurb: The APSA Directors' had their November meeting on the 16th where they discussed several business items including the treasurer's report, planning the 2016 National Sale, and ram share agreements.
---

Call number: 866-588-5787 Conference code: 2881249165

Call to Order: Meeting called to order at 6:35 MT

**Members present:** Glen Jones, Brett Pharo, Diane Hermann, Jeremy Refshaw, Mark Meurer,
Christopher Schauer, Chris Kaeb

**A. Approval of the agenda:** No additions


**B. Approval of minutes of last meeting:** No changes or objections; moved to approve by Glen Jones, 2nd by Mark Meurer. Motion passed.


**C. Treasurer’s report:**

|--------------------|-----------------|
| APSA Balance sheet |       11/1/2015 |
|--------------------|----------------:|
| Total Assets       |      $26,021.78 |
| Total Liabilities  |       $4,222.13 |
| **Net Worth**      | **$ 21,799.65** |
|--------------------|-----------------|  


|--------------------------|-----------------|
| APSA Earnings Statement  | October 2015    |
|--------------------------|----------------:|
| Total Income             | $1,265.50       |
| Total Expense            | $1,131.25       |
| **Net Income**           | **$134.25**     |
|--------------------------|-----------------|


Glen suggested to move $10,000 to a Certificate of Deposit (0.6% for $1,000 for 1 year). Moved by Glen to move $10,000 to a one year CD. Died for lack of a 2nd.


**D. Sale Committee report:** Committee’s recommendation is to go to Springfield, IL on June 17 and 18, 2016, joining with the Oxford APS Association to split the costs per entry with the other associations. Montadale’s bill last year was about $1,300. Clerking is up to us, or we can use the Oxford, Montadale, Shropshire, and Cheviot Association as a partnership. Both the show and the Jr. Show is up to debate, and how it is run.

Moved by Chris Kaeb, 2nd by Jeremy Refshaw to go to Springfield, IL on June 17 and 18, 2016 for the National Sale.

Glen Jones - yes, Brett Pharo - yes, Diane Hermann - no, Jeremy Refshaw - yes, Mark Meurer - yes, Christopher Schauer - yes, Chris Kaeb – yes. Motion passed


**E. Bylaws Committee report:** No report.


**F. Fee Schedule:** Glen reported that change in fee schedule from Associated Registries will not significantly affect our gross income. The estimate is that the Association will likely make about $0.25 less than we currently have been making.


**G. Advertising Budget:** No changes suggested.


**H. Request by ASI for Sponsorship:** Moved by Chris Schauer, and 2nd by Chris Kaeb to sponsor at the $300 level for the ASI 2016 annual convention.

Glen Jones - yes, Brett Pharo - yes, Diane Hermann - yes, Jeremy Refshaw - yes, Mark Meurer - yes, Christopher Schauer - yes, Chris Kaeb – yes. Motion passed


**I. Ram Share Agreement to be used with Associated Registries:** Agreement with Associated Registries to allow sharing of rams without using the signed breeding certificates.

Moved by Glen Jones, 2nd by Chris Kaeb to adopt the Ram Share Agreement suggested by Brett Pharo. (Attached)

Glen Jones - yes, Brett Pharo - yes, Diane Hermann - yes, Jeremy Refshaw - yes, Mark Meurer - yes, Christopher Schauer - yes, Chris Kaeb – yes. Motion passed


**K. Other pertinent comments/discussion**
* Check on website pictures – Chris
* NSIP discussion in relation to breed association involvement in data entry.
